- [Narrator] So now let us take a look
at the Java Enterprise Concurrency API's.
We already know that Executor, ExecutorService,
and ScheduledExecutorService come
from the Standard Edition platform.
We have seen demos for that in our previous videos.
Now when we look at the Enterprise Edition
Concurrency Utilities, let's take a look.
There is ManagedExecutorService,
which is an extension to the ExecutorService
and basically it is a managed version
of the ExecutorService.
Similarly you have ManagedScheduledExecutorService,
which is now is going to be a managed version
of ScheduledExecutorService.
Then we had seen the ThreadFactory
in the Standard Edition.
So ManagedThreadFactory is a managed version
of ThreadFactory.
And then this ContextService,
which is a very interesting API,
utilized to create contextual proxies
in the Enterprise application.
All of these four API's that you see on the slide
which are marked with the dotted blue sign
form a part of the Enterprise Edition concurrency utilities.
They are a part of the javax.enterprise.concurrent package.
So when you say ManagedExecutorService
it is going to help you submit tasks,
runnable or callable.
Similarly, ManagedScheduledExecutorService
is going to help you submit tasks which are
to be scheduled at regular intervals
or with certain definite delays, et cetera.
ManagedThreadFactory will give you a way
to have the threads created for your pools.
Context service is for contextual proxies.
We look at each one of them in detail,
and also where they move, for each one of them.
But before that, let us understand that
now that you have these four API's with you,
as an application, what are my responsibilities?
The first one is: I will have to find out ways
to use environment references of these managed resources.
Let's say today I want to use ManagedExecutorService
to submit a particular task.
Then I need to understand: How do I take a reference
of that resource in my Enterprise JavaBean,
or servlet, or RESTful API?
Right?
There are two ways.
You either declare them in your deployment descriptor,
or the second is you look it up in the container
or the environment or the network
through Java Naming and Directory Interface API.
Java Naming and Directory Interfaces is an API in Java
which is used to access directory services.
Or you can simply do dependency injection
by the Resource annotation.
So you inject these resources as dependencies
in all your application components.
Now you'll of course have to define your task
because we're trying to spawn asynchronous jobs
so these tasks will be defined as implementations
of callable and runnable.
Nothing changes that.
If you want a return value, you use callable.
Else, you stick to runnable.
Additionally, tasks could also
optionally implement ManagedTask
and even register ManagedTaskListener
to receive lifecycle notifications.
Now what is this ManagedTask interface?
ManagedTask interface is actually used
to provide identifying information about the task or maybe
to provide additional execution properties.
Let's say for example I want to provide
an additional execution property like,
I want to provide a hint about whether the task is going
to take a longer time to complete.
Or maybe I really want to have another execution property
which specifies under which transaction
should this current task be executed in?
So any kind of additional execution properties
could be set via the ManagedTask interface.
ManagedTaskListener is basically a listener class
used to receive lifecycle notifications - about what?
This listener is going to track the state
of your task's future.
So whenever the state changes, you
can configure this listener and whatever you want
as a part of the processing.
These are a little advanced topics and we'll have
advanced use cases attached with them.